Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to talk about instance meta data so there's instance metadata and instant use
of data and user data will be the next lab.
So for now I'm going to talk about metadata.
Instance metadata is data about your instance that you can use to configure or manage the running instance.
And this is an article that will be in the course download which describes a bit more about it.
But the best thing to do is to show you in action.
Now you can see some commands here on the screen and we're actually going to run these commands.
So I'm just going to copy this one to my clipboard.
In fact what I need is this one here.
This has the curl command so you can go there you can choose the option here just to copy it to your
clipboard and what I've done is I've actually launched an instance it's just a T2 micro Amazon Linux
to EMI and what I'm going to do now is head over to the console.
So I'm logged into my instance and if I run this command we're going to see some information.
Now you definitely need to know this command.
So just remember that the U.R.L. is 1 6 9 2 5 4 and then it repeats dot 1 6 9 2 5 4.
Then it's slash latest slash meter dash data and you do need that training slash if you take it off.
Nothing happens by put it on.
This is what I get.
So this gives me some categories of information about my instance and I can then drill down further
into this.
So for instance I could put on public dash hostname and what happens is the public hostname gets pre
pendant to the text here so you can actually see the hostname of the instance.
I could do the same for public that's put in dash IP the full.
And again you get the public IP address and you could do local hostname.
So let's just type in local dash hostname and again you get the hostname you can get the instance I.D.
you can get metrics and information about the network and so on.
There's lots of information there that you can use
I'm going to clear my screen and I want to show you one more tool the tool I want to show you can be
downloaded by running w get with this U.R.L. and this will be available again in the course download.
If I press enter it downloads the file and if I now do less I can see that I have this file
if I do an alias.
L.A. easy to dash metadata however I can see that I don't have executable permissions so I'm going to
do c h mode U Plus X easy to metadata and now I should have executable permissions so I can actually
run this tool
and that's put in the dash help option and you can see a help menu here and what you can then do is
choose one of these options.
So for instance let us put dash P for public hostname and it retrieves that information and then we
could do Dash said for availability zone.
It shows us which availability zone which in the end.
So this is a better way of accessing the metadata at the command line like this.
However the U or L is very good for working programmatically with instance metadata.
So that's just a really quick lab just to show you what instance metadata is.
You should remember the URL which is hate CTP colon slash slash 1 6 9 2 5 4 1 6 9 2 5 4 slash latest
slash meter dash data with a slash on the end.
That's it for this lab guys in the next lab.
We're going to go free easy to instance use a data.